Welcome to our update.
In many parts of the world, conventions are underway.
In fact, as of early July, over 2.3 million have attended
the exercise patience, regional conventions in person.
Seeing old friends and making new ones at the conventions
is bringing so much joy to God's people.
And the program is truly spiritual food at the proper time.
Those who have already attended the convention
have benefited greatly.
And we are sure those who will be attending in the future
you're going to love it.
On June 1, tours of many Bethel facilities
resumed worldwide.
This has been so exciting for the visitors
and for the Bethel family.
Seeing the first tour group arrive was exciting,
so encouraging, knowing the efforts that they'd made to come.
But in honesty, I don't know who was more excited
the Bethel family or the tour group because we really love to have them here.
My favourite part was the amazing surprise of walking in
and everyone being there and welcoming us and waving
and so many hugs. It was a great surprise.
The welcome we got was amazing and we just kept on coming
and talking to us.
When I think about it, most of their lives
have been watching updates about Chelmsford on JW.org.
So to finally be here, I just never imagined it would be possible.
It has been over a month now since tours have resumed.
And it has been amazing.
We are originally from the Philippines
and we are now in Canada.
We drove about eight hours to get to where we got all.
We planned the tour of Warwick in March of 2020.
Here we are three years later.
We said there's one trip that we have to plan
and make this year and it was coming to visit Bethel.
I would definitely encourage families to plan the trip.
It's definitely encouraging spiritually
but it's something that your kids are going to remember.
There's so many things in the museum
that you cannot really absorb in just one visit.
So hopefully we will be back again.
These brothers and sisters echo the inspired words of David
as recorded at Psalm 122, verse 1.
I rejoiced when they said to me,
let us go to the house of Jehovah.
We warmly invite you to experience the joy of touring Bethel.
Please make a tour reservation on JW.org.
You can find more information on the Bethel Tourist page
or you may contact your local branch office.
As announced on JW.org on Wednesday evening, June 28, 2023,
the Ramapo project received a major approval.
The town of Ramapo planning board unanimously approved
the site plan for the project.
Although there are many permits and technical details to work through,
this approval now allows the project to proceed.
We are grateful for the hard work of the town planning board
and all the brothers and sisters working behind the scenes.
And we thank Jehovah for his continued blessing on this project.
In May 2022, Brother Dennis Christensen was released from prison.
Shortly after we interviewed him and his wife, Irina,
as you watch the following video,
notice what helped them to endure and remain faithful.
We were at the meeting of our congregation in the city of Ariel.
But then one of our ministerial servants came running to me and said,
Dennis, you have to go in the hallway.
Okay, okay, I went then in the corridor
and there were people standing there in masks.
A lot of police officers and a lot of FSP people.
They showed their ideas and said that they were going to search our hall.
After that, they also showed me some paper.
There was a ruling that I was the main one in this case
and that they would arrest me for two days.
I thought, it's no big deal going to be resolved.
Two days is something I can live with.
Other brothers and sisters were in prison before me and I could do it too.
And I was sure too that Jehovah was protecting me.
The hardest part was being separated from my wife, Irina.
The detention center is located so that you can't generally see the prisoners, right?
I tried to find a place where I could see his window
and just from his window, he could see me well.
And so we agreed that I would go there.
Dennis told me what time.
That was my favorite time.
You might say of the whole day.
I was looking forward to one pm.
My opportunity to see Irina.
It was only five to ten minutes.
For two years we had this routine.
Irina came every day.
In the snow, in the rain, bright sunshine, no matter what the weather was.
Every day she was there.
It was our little secret, which we revealed now.
For two years we didn't tell it to anyone at all.
I really tried my best to be a good husband.
When I was in the detention center, I tried to call her twice a month.
I tried to write her letters five times a week.
I had friends supporting me, coming over, visiting.
I got a lot of letters and so did Dennis.
They were people who said, you are having a hard time.
You can call and text, we'll come over.
They offered all sorts of help and I'm very grateful to them.
Doing the trial, I particularly remember the support of the brothers and sisters.
That's amazing.
When I got my final sentence of six years,
then there were a lot of people in the audience.
How I dealt with it.
I was very strict about my attitude.
Because I knew basically, as I said in Proverbs,
if you are sad, then your strength also disappears.
And I knew it would be a long struggle and I wanted to endure.
I tried to read the Bible every day, like I was supposed to, and to meditate.
I did have a special notebook where I wrote down good thoughts
from the Bible that would strengthen me.
For example, I often remembered Isaiah, chapter 30, verse 15,
where it says that we have to keep calm and trust in Jehovah,
and that is our strength.
And very often I prayed that I had peace in my heart,
that Jehovah would help me to keep my joy, to be happy,
because I wanted it to be that way.
I often thought, yes, okay, you can steal my freedom.
Yes, you can make me not see my family,
not to be able to hug them as often as I'd like.
But inside, I will not let you steal my peace.
I will not let you steal my joy.
I want to be happy, to serve Jehovah,
to do as he wants, because he is a happy father.
Daniels once wrote this interesting phrase,
if you want to be happy, make others happy.
And that thought helped me a lot.
And I was always busy.
I was always looking for opportunities to help someone,
who to visit, who to bring groceries to, or to visit the sick.
A member of the prison staff said to me,
Dennis, I can see that you're very joyful.
I said, yes, I'll be free soon.
All my thoughts are there right now.
It's like, I'm not here.
I'm already out there.
Then he said to me, look, Christensen,
you've never been here.
You've always been on the outside.
You've always been free.
You've always been joyful and happy.
I've also imagined that day many times,
when I go out, when I see my brothers and sisters again,
my family, and when I hug them.
I was amazed at the number of people who were already there.
They got there early, and they were people from completely different cities.
We always knew ahead of time that there would be a few people
who would meet us at Copenhagen Airport.
But it was a great feeling.
When we saw so many brothers and sisters there,
who were shouting with joy?
I hugged everybody.
I had waited a long time for this,
so there were a lot of emotions there.
Now we're back in Denmark.
Here we have to start a new life, start from scratch.
We had an available and unique experience
that we really want to use to help others.
You could say that prison is a very good school
to polish your Christian qualities.
I'm out now, and I'm very happy about that.
But my prayers for my brothers and sisters,
who are still in prison, haven't changed.
On the contrary, I pray for them even more now
because I know what they're facing there.
It's not always easy, but I'm also sure
that Jehovah helps them as he helps me.
Brother and sister Christensen,
thank you for sharing your experience with us.
We are encouraged by your patient endurance.
I recall many years ago when I was working
with the brothers behind the iron curtain,
we saw their faith and integrity.
It was so touching and that has stayed with me until now.
When we see vivid accounts or hear reports about the faith
and determination of our brothers in countries under ban,
today doesn't it strengthen and inspire us?
We continue to pray for the over 180 brothers
and sisters worldwide who are presently in prison
for their faith.
As you watched the interview,
did you notice what helped the Christensen to endure?
Brother Christensen said that daily Bible reading
and meditation helped him.
He wrote strengthening thoughts from the Bible in a notebook.
Brother and sister Christensen encouraged each other
by regular letters and phone calls
and wasn't it touching to hear how seeing each other briefly
from a distance strengthened them?
They were also built up by the support of their spiritual family
and they did not just receive support.
They looked for opportunities to help and encourage others.
Do you remember what Dennis wrote to Irina?
If you want to be happy, make others happy.
This reminds us of Jesus' words recorded at Acts 20-35.
There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
One of the scriptures that Dennis said helped him through his trial
was Isaiah 30-15.
There we read,
your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
We are pleased to inform you that the full interview
of brother and sister Christensen will be made available
on JW.org in the future.
Yes, just as Jehovah strengthened the Christensen to endure their trial,
he will help all of us to endure faithfully
as we keep trusting in Jehovah.
Dear brothers and sisters, we take note of your patient endurance.
Please know that we love you all very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.